.TH sysopctl 1 "January 2024" "v0.1.0" "System Operations Control"
.SH NAME
sysopctl \- A command-line utility for system administration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sysopctl
[\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fICOMMAND\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBsysopctl\fR is a tool designed to simplify system administration tasks on Linux systems. It provides functionalities to manage services, monitor system resources, analyze logs, and perform backups.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display this help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display the version of sysopctl and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Service Management
.TP
.B service list
List all active services.
.TP
.B service start \fINAME\fR
Start a service specified by \fINAME\fR.
.TP
.B service stop \fINAME\fR
Stop a service specified by \fINAME\fR.
.SS System Monitoring
.TP
.B system load
Display the current system load averages.
.TP
.B disk usage
Show disk usage statistics by partition.
.TP
.B process monitor
Display real-time process activity.
.SS Log Analysis
.TP
.B logs analyze
Provide a summary of recent critical log entries.
.SS Backup
.TP
.B backup \fIPATH\fR
Initiate a backup of the specified \fIPATH\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List active services:
.B sysopctl service list
.TP
Start a service named 'apache2':
.B sysopctl service start apache2
.TP
View system load:
.B sysopctl system load
.TP
Backup the /etc directory:
.B sysopctl backup /etc
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR systemctl (1),
.BR uptime (1),
.BR df (1),
.BR top (1),
.BR htop (1),
.BR journalctl (1),
.BR rsync (1)
.SH AUTHOR
ANSHUL SINGH